---
title: Deploy Ruby on Rails apps
shortdesc: Ruby on Rails is an open source web application framework which runs on the Ruby programming language.
tags:
- ruby
---

# Deploy Ruby on Rails applications

Clever Cloud allows you to deploy any Ruby on Rails application. This page will
explain you how to set up your application to run it on our service.

You do not need to change a lot in your application, the *requirements* will help you configure your applications with some mandatory files to add, and properties to setup.

## Overview

Ruby on Rails is an open source web application framework which runs on the Ruby programming language. It is a full-stack framework: it allows creating pages and applications that gather information from the web server, talk to or query the database, and render templates out of the box. As a result, Rails features a routing system that is independent of the web server.


## Create an application

Refer to the page [Deploy an application on Clever Cloud](/doc/clever-cloud-overview/add-application/).

## Necessary information

Be sure that:

* you push to the <b>master branch</b>

* you commit your <strong>Gemfile.lock</strong> file

* you have a <strong>config.ru</strong> file (This one is most of the time generated by rails)

## Requirements

First, your application must use rack. This implies that a config.ru
file is present.

Then, you need to provide a Gemfile.lock. To do that, please run:

```bash
.../myapp $ bundle install ## That will generate Gemfile.lock
.../myapp $ git add Gemfile.lock
.../myapp $ git commit -m "Add production dependency file"
```

## Choose ruby version

Simply add this to your Gemfile

```
ruby '2.3'
```

`rubyversion` must be a string. The given string is tested against the
available versions by using the /^<ver>/ regexp.

 * "2" will select the greatest "2.X.Y" version available.
 * "2.3" will select the greatest "2.0.Y" version available.
 * "2.3.1-p112" will select the "2.3.1-p112" version.

If given `rubyversion` does not match any available version, your
deployment will fail.

If you need a version that is not yet installed, please contact the
support to ask for the version to be added. We try to follow the
releases, but, hey, we're human!

Due to current landscape in ruby applications, the default version is the
greatest 2.3.Y. We provide also the 2.2.Y and 2.1.Y versions.


## Environment injection

To access your variable in your application, nothing simpler! Just get
it from your environment, like you would with `PATH`:
`ENV["MY_VARIABLE"]`.


## Configuration secret key production

You need to use environment injection for `secret_key_base` in file  `./config/secret.yml` :

```yml
  # You can use `rake secret` to generate a secure secret key.
  # Do not keep production secrets in the repository,
  # instead read values from the environment.
  production:
    secret_key_base: <%= ENV["SECRET_KEY_BASE"] %>
```

Clever Cloud can inject environment variables that are defined in the
dashboard and by add-ons linked to your application.


## More configuration

You can configure your deployment via the `clevercloud/ruby.json`
configuration file. This file is optional.

### Set deployment RUBY_ENV and rake goals to execute

```javascript
{
  "deploy" : {
    "env": "<string>",
    "rakegoals": [<string>],
    "sidekiq": true
  }
}
```

The following table describes each field:


<table id="nodedeps" class="table table-bordered table-striped">
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Usage</th>
<th>Field</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><span class="label label-inverse">Optional</span></td>
<td>deploy.env</td>
<td>This field is only used for overriding the default "production" RAILS_ENV value.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="label label-inverse">Optional</span></td>
<td>deploy.rakegoals</td>
<td>
Specify a list of rake goals to execute.
They will be executed in the order of the list:<br />
<pre>bundle exec rake "goal1"</pre><br />
<pre>bundle exec rake "goal2"</pre>&hellip;<br />
We <strong>do not</strong> execute any rake goals by default.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="label label-inverse">Optional</span></td>
<td>deploy.sidekiq</td>
<td>
Run a sidekiq process in background. Please note you will need a redis instance to use this
feature.
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><span class="label label-inverse">Optional</span></td>
<td>deploy.static</td>
<td>
Let nginx serve the assets contained in the directory.
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


The sidekiq field can also be an array of strings instead of a boolean, like this:

```javascript
"sidekiq":  [
   "./config/sidekiq_1.yml",
   "./config/sidekiq_2.yml",
   "./config/sidekiq_3.yml"
]
```

Each string is the path *from the root of the repository* to a sidekiq configuration file.
Each file might contain something like the following:

```yaml
---
:concurrency: 4
:pidfile:     tmp/pids/sidekiq_1.pid
:queues:
  - [critical, 2]
  - default

production:
  :logfile: ./log/sidekiq.log
```

It's a standard sidekiq.yml configuration file.

## Assets and static files

Static files are configured with environment variables:

`STATIC_FILES_PATH`: should point to a directory where your static files are stored.

`STATIC_URL_PREFIX`: the URL path under which you want to serve static files (e.g. `/public/`)

Also, you are able to use a Filesystem Bucket to store your static files. Please refer to the
[File System Buckets](/doc/addons/clever-cloud-addons/#fs-buckets-file-system-with-persistance/) section.

**Note**: the path of your folder must be absolute regarding the root of your application.

**Note**: setting the `STATIC_URL_PREFIX` to `/` will make the deployment to fail.

If you use the asset pipeline, make sure to include the `assets:precompile`
task in the `rakegoals` field of `clevercloud/ruby.json`.

```json
{
    "deploy": {
        "rakegoals": ["assets:precompile"]
    }
}
```

## uWSGI and Nginx configuration

uWSGI and nginx settings can be configured by setting environment variables:

 - `HARAKIRI`: timeout (in seconds) after which an unresponding process is killed. (Default: 180)
 - `WSGI_BUFFER_SIZE`: maximal size (in bytes) for the headers of a request. (Defaut: 4096)
 - `WSGI_POST_BUFFERING`: buffer size (in bytes) for uploads. (Defaut: 4096)
 - `WSGI_WORKERS`: number of workers. (Defaut: depends on the scaler)
 - `WSGI_THREADS`: number of threads per worker. (Defaut: depends on the scaler)
 - `NGINX_READ_TIMEOUT`: a bit like HARAKIRI, the response timeout in seconds. (Defaut: 300)
 - `ENABLE_GZIP_COMPRESSION`: "on|yes|true" gzip-compress the output of uwsgi.

## uWSGI asynchronous/non-blocking modes

To enable [uWSGI asynchronous](https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Async.html) mode, you can use these two environment variables:

 - `UWSGI_ASYNC`: [number of cores](https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Async.html#async-switches) to use for uWSGI asynchronous/non-blocking modes.
 - `UWSGI_ASYNC_ENGINE`: select the [asynchronous engine for uWSGI](https://uwsgi-docs.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Async.html#suspend-resume-engines) (optional)

## Deploy on Clever Cloud

Application deployment on Clever Cloud is via Git. Follow [these steps](/doc/clever-cloud-overview/add-application/) to deploy your application.
