## Configure your Ruby on Rails application
### Mandatory configuration

Be sure that:

* you push to the <strong>master branch</strong>
* you commit your `gems.locked` or `Gemfile.lock` file
* you have a `config.ru` file (this one is most of the time generated by rails)
* you have `gem puma` in your `Gemfile` (`puma` is the default application server from rails, when creating a new ruby application, an [environment variable](#setting-up-environment-variables-on-clever-cloud) is automatically added: `CC_RACKUP_SERVER=puma`)

You need to provide a `gems.locked` or `Gemfile.lock` file. To do that ensure you have at least once run `bundle install` in your terminal at the root of your rails project.

### Choose ruby version

If you specify a ruby version in your `gems.rb` of `Gemfile`, we'll use it, otherwise; keep reading.

On your Clever Cloud application create an [environment variable](#setting-up-environment-variables-on-clever-cloud) `CC_RUBY_VERSION=rubyversion` where `rubyversion` represents:

 * "2" will select the greatest "2.X.Y" version available.
 * "2.5" will select the greatest "2.5.Y" version available.
 * "2.5.3" will select the "2.5.3" version.

Due to current landscape in ruby applications, the default version is the greatest 2.5.Y. We provide also the 2.4.Y and 2.3.Y version.

If given `rubyversion` does not match any available version, your deployment will fail.

### Choose your environment

You can set the `RUBY_ENV` [environment variable](#setting-up-environment-variables-on-clever-cloud) to the value you want. By default it is set to `production`.
Most used values are `production` and `development` but you can use any custom one as long as you have setted up of the required variables for this environment in your `./config/` folder files.

### Secure configuration of secret key

There are many way to add secret key to your env and each one is valid. Clever Cloud provides you a secure way so you don't have to commit any file containing it.

1. generate the secret key locally with `rake secret`
2. add it to your environment in `./config/secret.yml` with:

  ```yaml
  production:
      secret_key_base: <%= ENV["SECRET_KEY_BASE"] %>
  ```

### Configure Rake goals

You can specify a list of rake goals to execute before the deployment of your application by using the `CC_RAKEGOALS` environment variable.

The value of this variable must be a comma-separated list of goals, for instance:

```bash
CC_RAKEGOALS="db:migrate, assets:precompile"
```

We do not execute any rake goals by default.

### Configure Sidekiq

To run a Sidekiq process in background you will need to enable it with the `CC_ENABLE_SIDEKIQ=true` environment variable.

Please note you will need a redis instance to use this feature.

You can specify multiple Sidekiq configuration files with the `CC_SIDEKIQ_FILES` environment variable.

The value of this variable must be a comma-separated list of files:

```bash
CC_SIDEKIQ_FILES="./config/sidekiq_1.yml,./config/sidekiq_2.yml,./config/sidekiq_3.yml"
```

**Note:** `CC_SIDEKIQ_FILES` have precedence over `CC_ENABLE_SIDEKIQ` which means that even if `CC_SIDEKIQ_FILES` is defined and `CC_ENABLE_SIDEKIQ` is set to `false`, Sidekiq will still be enabled.

Each path is the path *from the root of the repository* to a sidekiq configuration file.

Each file might contain something like this standard sidekiq.yml file:

```yaml
---
:concurrency: 4
:pidfile:     tmp/pids/sidekiq_1.pid
:queues:
  - [critical, 2]
  - default

production:
  :logfile: ./log/sidekiq.log
---
```

### Manage your static files and assets

Static files are configured with [environment variables](#setting-up-environment-variables-on-clever-cloud):

`STATIC_FILES_PATH`: should point to a directory where your static files are stored.

`STATIC_URL_PREFIX`: the URL path under which you want to serve static files (e.g. `/public/`)

**Note**: the path of your folder must be absolute regarding the root of your application.

**Note**: setting the `STATIC_URL_PREFIX` to `/` will make the deployment to fail.

If you use the asset pipeline, make sure to include the `assets:precompile` task in the `CC_RAKEGOALS` environment variable value.

```bash
CC_RAKEGOALS="db:migrate, assets:precompile"
```

**Note**: if your project uses `webpacker`, make sure to enable the dedicated build instance option in the **Information** menu of your application in the Clever Cloud console because `webpacker` needs a lot a ressources when starting.

### Using Active Storage and Cellar S3

Only for Rails >= 5.2.

- Enable Active Storage for your application: `$ rails active_storage:install` then `$ rake db:migrate`
- Add `gem "aws-sdk-s3", require: false` to your Gemfile, run `$ bundle install`
- Add `config.active_storage.service = :clevercloud` in `config/environments/production.yml`
- Add in `config/storage.yml`:

  ```yaml
  clevercloud:
    service: S3
    access_key_id: <%= ENV['CELLAR_ADDON_KEY_ID'] %>
    secret_access_key: <%= ENV['CELLAR_ADDON_KEY_SECRET'] %>
    region: us-east-1
    bucket: <%= ENV['CELLAR_ADDON_BUCKET_NAME'] %>
    endpoint: <%= ENV['CELLAR_ADDON_ENDPOINT'] %>
    force_path_style: true
  ```

- In the clever cloud console create a Cellar S3 storage add-on, name it, link it to your rails application and create a bucket.
- In the environment variables section of your Ruby on Rails application on Clever Cloud add the following environment variables:

  ```bash
  CELLAR_ADDON_BUCKET_NAME="<your bucket name>"
  CELLAR_ADDON_ENDPOINT="https://cellar-c2.services.clever-cloud.com"
  ```

You can now commit and push your changes.

Also, you are able to use a Filesystem Bucket to store your static files. Please refer to the
[File System Buckets]({{< ref "deploy/addon/fs-bucket.md" >}}) section.

### Nginx configuration

nginx settings can be configured with [environment variables](#setting-up-environment-variables-on-clever-cloud):

 - `NGINX_READ_TIMEOUT`: the response timeout in seconds. (Defaut: 300)

#### Basic authentication

If you need basic authentication, you can enable it using [environment variables]({{< ref "reference/reference-environment-variables.md#ruby" >}}). You will need to set `CC_HTTP_BASIC_AUTH` variable to your own `login:password` pair. If you need to allow access to multiple users, you can create additional environment `CC_HTTP_BASIC_AUTH_n` (where `n` is a number) variables.

#### Nginx optional configuration with `clevercloud/http.json`

Nginx settings can be configured further in `clevercloud/http.json`. All its fields are optional.

 - `languages`: configure a default language and redirections
 - `error_pages`: configure custom files for error pages
 - `force_https`: automatically redirect HTTP traffic to HTTPS
 - `aliases`: set up redirections
 - `charset`: force a specific charset

```json
{
    "languages": {
        "default": {"rewrite": "en"},
        "fr": {"rewrite": "en"}
    },
    "error_pages": {
        "404": "path/to/page"
    },
    "force_https": true,
    "aliases": {
        "/path": "redirection"
    },
    "charset": "latin-1"
}
```

### Puma configuration

Puma reads its configuration from the `config/puma.rb` file. See [the puma documentation](https://GitHub.com/puma/puma/blob/master/README.md) for more information.

You can override this configuration with [environment variables](#setting-up-environment-variables-on-clever-cloud).
Each of them, when specified, will be be preferred over the setting from `config/puma.rb`. 

* `CC_PUMA_WORKERS` overrides the number of workers (e.g. `CC_PUMA_WORKERS=2`)
* `CC_PUMA_THREADS` overrides the number of threads per worker, can be a raw number or a range (e.g. `CC_PUMA_THREADS=6` or `CC_PUMA_THREADS=4:8`)

If they are not defined in the environment nor in `config/puma.rb` we will setup the values depending on the size of the scaler your application is running on.
We also fill the `WEB_CONCURRENCY` and `RAILS_MAX_THREADS` environment variable if they are not present as they may be used by rails' puma configuration.

## Overridding rackup application server

You can override the puma default server by setting an [environment variable](#setting-up-environment-variables-on-clever-cloud) `CC_RACKUP_SERVER=yourserver`. We do not recommend you do it.
