---
layout: page

title: Deploy WAR and EAR
tags:
- Java
- WAR

---

# <span class="label">Alpha</span> WAR/EAR deployment

The Clever Cloud offers you to run your WAR/EAR apps. Please first note
that this functionality is still in alpha. You won't get charged for it,
but feedback is very welcome!

## Many containers

The Clever Cloud supports many servlet containers.
The supported containers are listed below:

<table id="containers" class="table table-bordered table-striped">
	<thead>
		<tr>
			<th>Containers</th>
			<th>Configuration value</th>
		</tr>
	</thead>
	<tbody>
		<tr><td>Apache Tomcat 4.1</td><td>tomcat4</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Apache Tomcat 5.5</td><td>tomcat5</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Apache Tomcat 6.0</td><td>tomcat6</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Apache Tomcat 7.0</td><td>tomcat7</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Glassfish 3.1</td><td>glassfish3</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Jboss 6.1</td><td>jboss6</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Jboss AS 7.1</td><td>jboss7</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Resin 3.1</td><td>resin3</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Jetty 6.1</td><td>jetty6</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Jetty 7.6</td><td>jetty7</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Jetty 8.1</td><td>jetty8</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Jetty 9.0</td><td>jetty9</td></tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

## Configuration file

To deploy war and ear files on the Clever Cloud, you need to provide a
`cc_conf.json` file describing the container you want and the archives you
want to deploy.

The file must contain the following fields:

{% highlight javascript %}
{
   "deploy":{
	   "container":<string>,
		"war" : [<string>]
	}
}
{% endhighlight %}

**container**
: that field should contain one of the values in the right column of the
<a href="#containers">table above</a>. Just choose your container in the
left column, pick the "configuration value" in the corresponding cell.

**war**
: that field is a list of strings. It should contain the paths of the
war/ear files relative to your application root.


<div class="alert alert-hot-problems">
	Tip: do not forget the double quotes
	around the "container"’s value, and the strings in the "war" list.
	The "war" value must be a list.
</div>

### Deployment via Git

Like all java-based applications, war apps have to be deployed *via* Git.
To deploy via Git, see details here: <a href="/git-deploy-java">Git deploy</a>.

<script type="text/javascript">
$('#center a').click(function(){
    $('html, body').animate({
        scrollTop: $( $(this).attr('href') ).offset().top - 0
    }, 500);
    return false;
});
</script>
